[Music]
another visitor this time it's a female
this is just where he wants her time to
begin the show first he expands his
pupils alternately
[Music]
it's an oddly mesmerizing display
a spot of limbering up accompanied by a
weird and wheezy call from deep in his
throat now it's time for his grand
performance he waves his wing like a
Matadors cape she appears to be
transfixed this is certainly eye
catching but it seems he needs to do
more generously she drops him a hint
it's the bird equivalent of a bouquet of
flowers
[Laughter]
it's all going so well it's time to get
physical with a few head butts to her
chest one final flourish to cap weeks of
effort in the dead of night
a brown Kiwi leaves his burrow for the
pitch-dark of the primeval New Zealand
forest a kiwi is a most distinctive and
peculiar type of bird he's about the
size and weight of a stout chicken but
he's more closely related to an ostrich
[Music]
to help them locate underground prey in
the soil Kiwis are the only birds in the
world to have nostrils at the tip of
their bills it's more like a snout
perfect for rooting around for grubs but
right now the Kiwis here have something
else on their minds
a female sings and alluring serenade
love is in the air
[Music]
these birds are part of a habitual group
which means we can film intimate details
of their private behavior brown Kiwis
often mate for life
and females are very fussy in Kiwi
couples the ladies are normally the ones
in charge but he's happy to follow her
around he flirts by grunting and tapping
her bottom with his beak she takes a lot
of persuading but eventually succumbs to
his chance
these are Uganda cub the most abundant
antelope in the Western Rift Valley
somehow they find time to indulge in a
surprisingly complex mating ritual the
Cobb have a dedicated mating ground
known as a lek it's where males gather
to flaunt themselves and the females
turn up to pick a mate
[Music]
the male's want to hold the best spot to
win it they have to fight it's all to
impress the ladies who are very picky
when it comes to choosing the right mate
[Music]
the females are after the buck with the
best blood the strongest male holding
the most coveted position right in the
middle of the lek
the female chooses her mate and then
allows him to test her scent for
hormones to confirm she's ready to mate
a female comes into season every 20 days
or so but is only receptive for a couple
of hours so there's not much time for
flirting
job done
the exchange of genes is complete Irwin
is males wandering tarantulas searching
this male spends matured in two months
you'll be dead
he's in a serious
[Music]
you'll barely eat or sleep
this is what is it
silken threads left by a female
impregnated with her pheromones chemical
love letters
advertising her availability they lead
him to her lair
she can live for 30 years she seen many
suitors in the past
[Music]
he taps a seductive rhythm to tempt her
out she replies
for him this is a very dangerous liaison
he iced her up
[Music]
if he's not her type she'll eat him
but this male has a talent a seduction
he tenderly strokes her body
[Music]
she relaxed opening her fangs allowing
him to move closer
[Music]
carefully delivers his packet of sperm
during mating the female falls into a
trance-like State if she stays like this
for several minutes he has to make a
quick getaway before it wears off
but all is not quite as collaborative as
it seems this pack strategy works well
for the Alpha couple but not quite so
well for last year's offspring the
youngsters could have their own pups but
for the Alpha couple that would mean
more mouths to feed and less for their
litter so the Alpha couple will actively
discourage last year's offspring from
mating but one of their daughters has
other ideas
skulking behind the pack is a lone male
wolf he has no territory of his own but
follows the family scavenging leftovers
and looking for opportunities he spotted
one the young daughter
the intruder could be in with a chance
as long as he's not caught the path
leader could kill him
[Music]
[Applause]
while the pack is distracted by a bison
the temptation for the young female is
too great and she sneaks away to join
the mysterious stranger it's risky but
it could be her only chance to get close
to a potential mate
[Music]
when mating rules lock together unable
to separate for half an hour to ensure
fertilization not so good if you are
about to be caught by your dad
the affair was always destined to be a
short one
[Music]
after a painful separation her new mate
is chased away with his tail between his
legs
[Music]